
# Autonomous Exploration with LIO-SAM

This repository contains the code and instructions for setting up and running the autonomous exploration framework with the following modules:

1. **Autonomy Basic**: [Autonomous Exploration Development Environment](https://github.com/HongbiaoZ/autonomous_exploration_development_environment)
2. **Far Planner**: [Far Planner](https://github.com/MichaelFYang/far_planner)
3. **LIO-SAM**: [LIO-SAM](https://github.com/TixiaoShan/LIO-SAM)
4. **TARE Planner**: [TARE Planner](https://github.com/caochao39/tare_planner)

## Installation

### Dependencies

Install the following system dependencies:

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install libusb-dev
sudo apt install ros-humble-perception-pcl        ros-humble-pcl-msgs        ros-humble-vision-opencv        ros-humble-xacro
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:borglab/gtsam-release-4.1
sudo apt install libgtsam-dev libgtsam-unstable-dev
sudo apt-get install libcgal-dev
```

### Step 1: Install the Required Modules

Clone the repositories for the modules:

```bash
git clone https://gitlab.lrz.de/00000000014B950F/autonomous-exploration-with-lio-sam.git
colcon build
```

### Step 2: Install TARE Planner

```bash
git clone https://github.com/caochao39/tare_planner.git
cd tare_planner
git checkout humble-jazzy
colcon build --symlink-install --cmake-args -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
```

## Usage

1. **Launch Gazebo Simulation and Autonomy Basic**:

   ```bash
   cd autonomous-exploration-with-lio-sam
   source install/setup.sh
   ros2 launch vehicle_simulator system_test.launch
   ```
   Or launch a different world:
   ```bash
   ros2 launch vehicle_simulator system_garage.launch
   ```
   Now you should see gazebo simulation and autonomy_basic visualized in RViz.

2. **Launch LIO-SAM**:

   ```bash
   cd autonomous-exploration-with-lio-sam
   source install/setup.sh
   ros2 launch lio_sam run.launch.py
   ```
   Now you should see LIO-SAM visualized in RViz.

3. **Launch tare_planner**:

   ```bash
   cd tare_planner
   source install/setup.sh
   ros2 launch tare_planner explore_garage.launch
   ```
   Now you should see autonomous exploration in action.

4. **Launch Map Processor**:

   ```bash
   source install/setup.bash
   ros2 run lidar_map_processor lidar_map_processor
   ```
   This module is developed for wall and ceiling detection and way point generating. Modify the pcd file path before using. 
   You should walls and ceiling are detected, after finihing matching, it will generates way points(marked in blue) around walls. Adjust scale_down and scale_up control the distance between way points and walls.

   RANSAC is used to fit the features of walls and ceiling in the point cloud, it finds the planes at first, which can filter out the curved surface like barrals or human in the enviroment. Then uses the normal vector to filter out other inrrevlent plane features like ladder in the room. Setting the area threshold for planes is optional, it may be helpful to filter out the inrrevlent some planes like toolbox in the room.

   Then CGAL is applied to detect the polygons in the binary image, which is the representaion of the environment.

   **TODO 1**: *(Finished)* use the functions of planes to draw lines that can be easily detected by CGAL while generator less noise.


   Result: NOT GOOD since any random point in space can be classifie to a wall as long as it's on the same plane, such outliers will make the boundary of a plane exetremly large.

   **TODO 2**: *(Pending)* use DL-based detection.

   Result: DL-based detetcion can be robust, but our goal here is generating coordinates of way points, which requires accurate bounding box of the wall, while neuron networks' bounding box is not accurate. But with some workaround it should work well.
   Mask R-CNN is an option, but running it requirs CPU(i7), GPU(RTX2080Ti), RAM(8G), the inference should be done on desktop or cloud if robot can send the point cloud file to them.

   **TODO 3**: *(Current)* use image compressed from original cloud and a mask generated by filtered cloud to detection. Duplicate polygons and way points will be filter out.
   
   Result: If kernel size is proper, it works well.


## Others

1. The autonomy basic publish way points information to the /way_point topic.
   ```bash
   ros2 topic echo /way_point
   ```

2. To visulaize the .pcd file, you can use the online viewer:
https://imagetostl.com/view-pcd-online#convert